\documentclass[10pt,fleqn]{article}

\setlength{\topmargin}{-.75in}
\addtolength{\textheight}{2.00in}
\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{.00in}
\addtolength{\textwidth}{.75in}

\nofiles

\pagestyle{empty}

\setlength{\parindent}{0in}

\input{../../../../tex/commands/commands}

\begin{document}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\vskip0.1in\hrule\vskip0.1in
\noindent
{\bf Description of Material Presented in Lectures:}
\vskip0.1in\hrule\vskip0.1in
\noindent
The following is a list and description of content in the lectures that will be
presented in Math 4610 at Utah State University. Each of the lectures is
associated with one class period in a standard one semester course. The idea is
to cover as many of the concepts discussed in the lectures as possible. This may
not be possible in some cases and the contents will likely change to reflect
this.

\vskip0.1in
\noindent
Note that the numerical algorithms presented in this class do not represent an
exhaustive list of algorithms. The algorithms presented in this course are
important algorithms. However, these algorithms will allow students a chance to
see how to write computer codes that approximately solve important problems in
applied and computational mathematics. In addition, the algorithms are chosen to
introduce students to parallelization of computer code to take advantage of
multicore systems and graphics processing units (GPU's) to build more efficient
code. For example, an important concept in linear algebra involves matrix-vector
multiplication. This is used in many methods for solve linear systems of
equations and is used in the power method for the approximation of the largest
(in magnitude) eigenvalue. So, this is an important concept for students to
translate into computer code. In addition, matrix-vector multiplication is an
easy algorithm to introduce the use of multicore systems for parallelization of
the algorithm. Students will use OpenMP to speed up the computation of a
matrix-vector produce.
\vskip0.1in\hrule\vskip0.1in
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\noindent
\begin{enumerate}


%From what I learned so far is that clang that comes with xcode does not support
%openmp. Also, the versions are different. So clang that comes with xcode 8 has
%version 8...
%The best solution I have found so far is to install clang using homebrew: brew
%install
%     llvm --with-clang
%
%. Right now I got version 3.9.0 and it does support openmp, so it solves my
%problem.


  \item {\bf Lecture: First Day} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Cover the syllabus for the course. The syllabus should cover basic
            information about
            \begin{enumerate}
              \item the instructor including contact information, office
                    location, webpage links,
              \item general course content description, 
              \item what is expected in terms of homework,
              \item exams and exam dates,
              \item general USU, Department, and instructor policies, and
              \item how assignments and exams will be graded.
            \end{enumerate}
      \item Students must be familiar with command windows or terminals for
            command line interaction with Unix, Linux, or Cygwin-unix emulation
            to be successful in the course. We will spend some time introducing
            these ideas using Cygwin. Interactive Develement Environments (IDEs)
            will not do for the work in this course. Note that for USU students,
            a version of Cygwin has been installed and is available in the
            on the third floor of the Engineering Classroom Building on the USU
            campus.
      \item Students must choose a programming language for use in the course:
            It will be best to choose a computer programming language and stick
            with the language throughout the semester. This means you should be
            proficient with at least one native computer programming languages.
            Students should use one of the following:
            \begin{enumerate}
              \item C, You can use gcc,
              \item C++, You can use g++,
              \item Fortran, You can use gfortran,
              \item Python - Use python for Cygwin/Linux, or
              \item Java - Download and use the Java SDK from Oracle.
            \end{enumerate}
            Any of these choices will suffice for the course.
      \item Installing/working with git: Git is a Version Control System (VCS)
            that was first developed and used to distribute the work of building
            and maintaining a standardized kernel for Unix/Linux systems. Note
            that git can easily be obtained as a package along with Cygwin.
      \item Get on Github: We will use Github for this course. This means you
            will need to set up an account on Github. This is where you can
            share work done in the course.
      \item Compiling an example code: create helloworld.exe from a text file.
            This will be done to emphasize how students are to complete homework
            problems for the material.
      \item Computing Machine Precision: compute the machine $\epsilon$ in 
            single or double precision - first ideas on sources of errors in
            computation. This example will be completed by students and turned
            in at the next course.
      \item Compilation, development of reusable code, and starting a software
            manual on Github. The software manual is a writing project that will
            tie the algorithms together.
      \item If time permits, examples of how to set up a laptop or tablet for
            the course will be presented. For example, how one can install a
            platform like Cygwin. Also, discussion of other options like Linux
            or Bash on Ubuntu for Windows. Another issue involves use of text
            editors like {\bf vi} or {\bf vim}.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Repositories, Sharing Libraries, and Test Codes} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Using \lq\lq git\rq\rq\ to complete homework assignments. Some time
            in this lecture will be spent going over how to use {\bf git} to
            create a repository and how to build files and other features in a
            repository. We will go through some specific examples of git
            commands and how to add, delete, modify, and commit changes to a
            repository. Students will need to master the use of git to turn in
            homework.
      \item As an example of using git, students will compile an example code:
            helloworld.exe from a text file. Students will learn how to include
            the files and output from the file into a repository.
      \item The second example of using git will involve computing machine
            precision. How to compute the machine epsilon in any precision -
            first ideas on sources of errors in computation.
      \item Compilation, reuse of code, and starting a shared library of object
            modules and how to document work via a software manual.
      \item If time permits at the end of class, more examples of how to set up
            laptops and compile code will be discussed. Examples of compiling
            codes in C, C++, Fortran, Java, and Python, although Python does not
            need compiling.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Accuracy Using the Difference Quotient for the Derivative}
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item A mathematical example of errors in the determination of an
            approximate formula for the derivative of a function in one
            independent variable.
      \item Definition of truncation error when using approximations of analytic
            formulas. The definition of the derivative will be reviewed and used
            as a means to obtain an approximation of the derivative.
      \item Analysis of the difference quotient as an approximation of the
            first derivative using Taylor series expansions. We will briefly
            review Taylor series normally presented in the second semester of an
            engineering calculus sequence. At USU, the prerequisite course is
            Math 1220 Calculus II.
      \item Coding up the approximation of the finite difference approximation
            and testing the code. Note that the code will produce a numerical
            value and the results will be \lq\lq verified\rq\rq\ using a known
            derivative. A general discussion of the computation of the error
            will start with this example.
      \item The end of class will be used to go over any details from previous
            classes.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: The Bisection Method:}
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Definition of the root finding problem for one variable will be
            stated mathematically.
      \item A brief version of the Intermediate Value Theorem for continuous
            functions of a single real variable will be given.
      \item The next step will be to develop and code the Bisection method based
            on what the Intermediate Value Theorem states. 
      \item Using recursion to define an implementation of the Bisection Method.
      \item An alternate way to write the Bisection method using a specified
            number of iterations based on interval size reduction.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Truncation Error versus Roundoff Error} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Formally define truncation error and roundoff error related to
            machine precision.
      \item Define the terms absolute error and relative (or percent) error.
            This part of the lecture will include examples involving
            sensitivity of errors to small changes or perturbations in the
            numerical computations.
      \item How roundoff errors can be accumulate through computationally
            intensive algorithms. One example involves the approximate solution
            of linear systems of equations or systems of differential equations.
      \item Discussion of the two sources of error in the context of a finite
            difference approximation from the previous lecture. Students will
            see how to compute both absolute error and relative error for this
            example.
      \item Interval Analysis and the accumulation of roundoff error. Interval
            analysis allows a computational mathematicians to determine bounds
            on how errors accumulate over a large number of computations.
      \item Another related topic involves selecting \lq\lq stable\rq\rq
            algorithms for solution of real problems. Stable algorithms are less
            sensitive to accumulation of errors.
      \item Determining the efficiency of an algorithm. An effective means for
            determining efficiency is to count the number of Floating Point
            OPerations (flops) it takes to complete the algorithm.
      \item Tradeoffs between accuracy of an approximation versus efficiency of
            the algorithm used to compute the approximation will be discussed in
            terms of the examples already presented to this point.
      \item Ideas on practical methods to efficiently compute the number of
            flops needed to complete an algorithm. 
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Solution of Linear Systems of Equations} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Gaussian elimination and implementation of row reduction operations.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Solution of Linear Systems of Equations} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Back-substitution and the solution of linear systems of equations.
      \item How to measure errors in the solution of linear equations in terms
            of norms.
      \item Standard norms in computational mathematics.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Solution of Linear Systems of Equations} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item LU factorization of square matrices.
      \item Rewrite of a linear system of equations using LU factorization.
      \item Forward substitution for intermediate solution of linear systems.
      \item LU factorization and solution of linear systems of equations.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Solution of Linear Systems of Equations} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Comparisons for Gaussian elimination and LU factorization for
            solving linear systems of equations.
      \item Number of Floating Point Operations (flops) by introducing counters
            and the size of the linear system is increases.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Solution of Linear Systems of Equations} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Reusable codes and putting together shared libraries from codes that
            can easily be used by others.
      \item Building examples of linear system of equations and using benchmarks
            to test codes. ORNL/nanet 
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Matrix Operations} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Computation of the sum of vectors.
      \item Computation of inner products of vectors.
      \item Computation of cross products of vectors.
      \item Computation of matrix-vector products.
      \item Computation of matrix-matrix products.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Stationary Iterative Method for Solving Linear Systems}
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Functional Iteration for System Equations.
      \item Jacobi Iteration.
      \item Gauss-Seidel Iteration.
      \item Analysis of these methods.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Stationary Iterative Method for Solving Linear Systems}
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Gauss-Seidel Iteration.
      \item Recursion versus explicit evaluation of iteration methods.
      \item Analysis of Gauss-Seidel
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Parallel Algorithms for Solving Linear Systems} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Compiler options for optimization of a code.
      \item Hello world using OpenMP. 
      \item Using OpenMp to parallelize Jacobi Iteration. 
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Finding roots of nonlinear functions of one variable} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item The root finding problem.
      \item Functional Iteration for Root Finding.
      \item Convergence of Functional Iteration Via Fixed Point Theorems.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Finding roots of nonlinear functions of one variable} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item The Bisection Method.
      \item The Intermediate Theorem for Continuous Functions on a Closed
            Interval.
      \item Accuracy versus Number of Iterations in the Bisection Method.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Estimating Eigenvalues of a Square Matrix} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item The Rayleigh Quotient for Eigenpairs of a Square Matrix.
      \item The Power Method for estimating the largest eigenvalue of a matrix.
      \item Why the Power Method Works.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Inverse Iteration for the Smallest Eigenvalue} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Properties of Eigenvalues of Matrices Using Shifting
      \item The Inverse Iteration Method for estimating the smallest of a
            matrix.
      \item Using Shifting, Parallel Implementation to Search for Eigenvalues
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: The QR Factorization of a Matrix} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item QR factorization of a matrix.
      \item Gram-Schmidt Orthogonalization of Vectors.
      \item Modified Gram-Schmift Orthogonalization for added stability of the
            computational algorithm.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: The QR Factorization for Solving Systems of Linear
         Equations} 
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item The matrix operations needed to solve a linear system.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: The QR Factorization for Solving Least Squares
         Problems}
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item Full Column Rank Problems and the thin QR.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: The QR Factorization for Eigenvalue Problems}
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item The QR algorithm.
      \item Why the QR algorithm works.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  \item {\bf Lecture: Quantum Computing - IBMQ}
    \begin{list}{$\bullet$}{\usecounter{beans} \parsep=0pt \listparindent=0pt
    \topsep=0pt \rightmargin=.35in \leftmargin=.35in \labelsep=5 pt
    \itemsep=2pt}
      \item Questions from the previous lecture.
      \item What is quantum computing?
      \item Accessing IBMQ.
    \end{list}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\end{enumerate}
\end{document}
